>> This is "Nuevo, the
UFOs of Los Alamos."
Between 1945 and
'48, three ships
crash around the Los
Alamos nuclear plant
in San Antonio, New Mexico,
in Roswell, New Mexico,
and in Aztec, New Mexico.
This is an exclusive
investigation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> It is very possible that
between 1945 and '48, at least
three UFO crash
around Los Alamos,
the first one in San
Antonio, Nuevo Mexico.
Not too many people
know about this case.
We are going to present all
the evidence, all the details
for the first time, and
probably its connection
to Roswell, and also to Aztec.
Probably all these UFOs crash
because of the same reason.
This is the full investigation.
>> On March 22,
1950, Guy Hottel,
the Field Investigator Director
of the FBI in Washington, DC,
wrote a memo to J. Edgar
Hoover, Director of the FBI,
quoting an Air Force
investigator that revealed
to him that three unidentified
flying objects have been
recovered in the
New Mexico area.
According to the
information, the objects
measured a little over
15 meters in diameter
and were occupied by beings less
than one meter tall, dressed
in silver suits, similar
to those of test pilots.
One of the most
important aspects
was that these ships had
fallen out of the sky
because powerful
radar systems used
by the government
of the United States
had interfered with
their navigation systems
and had brought them down.
According to the
memorandum, this story
had not been officially
investigated yet.
Here we present to
you, word for word,
agent Guy Hottel's memo to
FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover.
Office memorandum from the
United States government
to the Director of the
FBI, March 22, 1950.
Guy Hottel, Special
Investigative Agent,
Washington.
Here is that information
from Agent Hottel.
An Air Force investigator said
three of the so-called flying
saucers had been
recovered in New Mexico.
They were described as
circular, approximately 50 feet
in diameter, each occupied
by three alien bodies
with similar human attributes,
but only three feet tall,
dressed in metallic
clothes of fine texture.
Each body was covered
in a similar way
to the suits worn
by test pilots.
According to an
informant, the ships
were found in New
Mexico due to the fact
that the government
has a high power radar
operating in the area.
It is thought that the radar
interfered with the navigation
mechanisms of the ship.
The special agent
did not attempt
to conduct a more in-depth
assessment of this case.
Received on March 23, 1950.
This memo is the
most read document
in the declassified
files of the FBI.
Millions of people have
been captivated by it.
The FBI, however, considers that
it is an unconfirmed one page
report which was
never investigated.
According to the FBI,
Agent Hottel's memorandum
was released in his declassified
files at the end of the '70s.
Secondly, the
document was drafted
three years after the
supposed case of Roswell
and therefore it is considered
that both cases are not
connected.
Thirdly they claim
that the FBI does not
investigate UFO cases except
when they are officially
requested.
None of the arguments of
the FBI are convincing.
On the contrary, the
memo from Guy Hottel
reveals something that
was not known until now,
that there were
three ships recovered
in the vicinity of the nuclear
power plant of the Alamos
and that high
powered radars were
those responsible for the ships
having fallen from the sky.
>> Today we know that there is
evidence and testimonials that
show that three ships crash and
were recovered in the vicinity
of Los Alamos nuclear power
plant between 1945 and 1948.
The first one crash in
San Antonio, New Mexico
on August 16, 1945.
The second in Roswell, New
Mexico on July 3, 1947.
The third in Aztec, New
Mexico on March 25, 1948.
>> The author of this document
was also a man of great
confidence to FBI
Director J. Edgar Hoover.
He was the director of field
research of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
Guy Hottel, born in
1902 and graduated
from George Washington
University in Washington, DC.
He joined the FBI as
special agent in 1934.
In 1936, he was appointed
head of the field research
office, a position he held
until his retirement in 1955.
He died in 1990.
During his service as
Director of the FBI,
J. Edgar Hoover
knew that the Army
was in possession of
the unidentified flying
objects that crashed in
the New Mexico desert.
There is evidence to show
that the FBI was excluded
from conducting its
own investigation
into the recovered objects.
However, in a declassified
official document
known as Hoover's
Memorandum, Agent E.J. Fitch
informs agent D.M. Ladd
that the Army requested
the FBI to be involved
in the investigation
since the recovered objects
were not part of any experiment.
Clyde Tolson, the
deputy director,
wrote in his own handwriting,
I think we should do it,
while J. Edgar
Hoover, the Director,
also in his own handwriting,
but not very readable, says,
we should do it.
But before accepting,
we should insist
on having total access
to the recovered disks.
For example, Hoover writes,
in the case of the SA,
the Army appropriated the object
and did not let us examine it.
Some think that is reality.
It referred to an alleged
case in Shreveport, Louisiana.
However, that case was already
known to be a fraud in 1947.
It is more than evident that it
referred to a different case.
Today, thanks to
the investigations
carried out by
journalist Paola Harris,
we know that is the
case that occurred
in San Antonio, New Mexico.
>> On "Nuevo," we present the
investigation of extraordinary
cases that evidently are related
to the Los Alamos nuclear base,
the only place in the world
where nuclear weapons were
manufactured between
1945 and 1949.
>> On July 16, 1945, a bomb
of unknown proportions was
detonated only 15 kilometers
from San Antonio, New Mexico.
The place is known as
Trinity and gave its name
to the first nuclear
test conducted
in history, the Trinity test.
After more than five years
of secret operations,
the team, led by
Robert Oppenheimer,
was able to detonate a bomb
like no other whose destructive
power would forever change
the destiny of humanity.
On July 16, at 5 hours, 29
minutes, and 45 seconds,
history changed forever.
The so-called Manhattan Project
allowed the United States
to begin a new era
which, nevertheless,
has been constituted
as the greatest danger
that humanity has faced, a
danger that could one day
destroy life on planet Earth.
This experiment was so
secretive and dangerous
that the inhabitants of San
Antonio and Carrizozo, New
Mexico were never informed
of the danger they
faced that morning.
>> Were you there?
Were you here that day, July 16,
when the atomic bomb exploded?
>> It was early in the
morning there in Socorro,
that's about 10 miles.
I got up about that--
about that time.
At that time, they didn't
have an inside toilets and all
that stuff, so we--
I never did use the toilet.
I saw that flash
and then a boom.
I went to bed.
I didn't even tell
my folks about it.
Till my dad had a radio with--
a battery radio.
He had two batteries.
And one he would have for the
radio at night and the other
to put in the truck, you
know, before he'd go to work.
And we heard in the radio
that the ammunition dump
had exploded White Sands--
exploded.
But everybody figured
it was bigger.
>> Something bigger.
>> No.
But you know the
funny part about it
is they didn't let the
people know what they
were going to do, you know.
They didn't know if
that thing was going
to tear up the whole world or--
my mother-in-law was serious.
In fact, there's a picture of
her talking to some reporters
about--
I don't know where
the hell that--
>> Because they
didn't tell them?
>> They didn't tell anybody.
>> Two weeks later, that's
when they had the meeting over
at the Owl Bar company there,
telling the government,
telling all the people,
all the ranchers over here,
that it was a ammunition
dump that had blown up.
>> And they believed that?
>> We ranchers
were stupid enough.
We didn't know, you know?
But at the same
time, the animals,
their fur turned white
where it was black,
was a reflection of the light.
And that's why the government
just lied to the people.
And they kept it hush hush, and
no one done nothing about it.
And now it'll be fourth
or fifth generation
that are trying to bring out--
but there's no
one to fight with.
>> That morning, my mom
and I went over to the--
because [INAUDIBLE] we also
had a grocery store there.
And so we went over there to
get something that she needed
and such.
And there were soldiers
in front of the store.
And so they were
saying, oh, by the way,
you know that sound
you heard this morning?
Yeah.
Well, some explosives,
you know, there
were some explosives in one
of the houses over there
in the places where
they store them
over at Alamogordo
that exploded,
and that's what you heard.
And that's what we believed.
>> Then you didn't even know
after the explosion what it
was.
>> We don't know what it was.
Until they dropped the bomb
on Hiroshima and Nagasaki
on August, I think it
was the 7th and the 9th.
>> The 6th and the 9th.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> According to historical
records regarding Trinity,
as well as the Los Alamos
nuclear power plant,
there were numerous reports of
the presence of strange objects
in the heavens, in the clouds.
At that time, people were just
not sure what was happening
or why.
On August 16, 1945, just 30
days after the detonation
of the first atomic bomb
in White Sands, New Mexico,
a few miles away, two
children, six and seven years
of age, respectively, Jose
Padilla and Reme Baca,
witnessed an
extraordinary event.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> According to the testimony
of Reme Baca and Jose Padilla,
two children of Hispanic
origin who lived in the area,
claimed they observed an oval
object approximately 5 meters
high by 10 meters in diameter
crash into a brick tower 15
or 20 meters high with
an antenna on top of its
structure.
On impact, the tower
exploded and the foreign UFO
fell to the ground, skidding
across the sand and burning
vegetation for more
than 50 to 100 meters,
until it stopped on a sandbank
at the edge of a stream.
>> It landed there?
It crash?
What happened?
>> You can see the side
of the road over here,
on the hill over there.
Like a cut the old road.
That road wasn't there.
It came around like that and
hit the dirt right there,
and it made a big groove
all the way around,
like it was turning.
And it came down.
And this right here was like
a bunch of sand, an arroyo,
and a bunch of sand.
And he just buried
himself right in here.
And he stood up and this way.
That's where the hull-- you
can see the hull right here
on the side, on the top up here.
But this where he stopped.
And years and years
that it rains out here,
wheats come out,
except for here.
Nothing grows over here.
>> Where were you?
>> Up above here.
See the mesquite, mesquite.
See that right there?
The mesquite right
there, there were trees.
I mean, that's 70
years, you know.
There were trees.
We used to hide right there.
The horses were behind there.
And we used to hide
right there where
the military used to be working
over here on that object.
The trailer was loaded
right over here.
Where is it?
They picked it up from
there and loaded up on it.
>> You came every day.
>> Every day.
>> What do you remember
from the first day?
You came running, because
you saw the smoke.
>> We came running through here.
That little canyon right there,
we came out on the horses
through there.
When you see in that
thing smoking over here,
on the bottom over here, there
was a bunch of that chamiso--
you know chamiso?
Mesquite.
It was burning,
where it skidded,
metal, something
that you skidded.
It was burning, smoking.
When we came down over here, we
climbed that hill over and came
all the way to this side.
That's when we starting
seeing over here.
>> What did you see here?
>> That round UFO, you know.
>> And you saw the
creatures, too?
>> Pardon me?
>> The creatures.
>> The creatures were--
he was leaning up,
upright like that.
When he landed, he'd buried
part of it on the sand
and the hull was
right over here.
So how come we could
see from up above.
They were running, these
little four guys who
were running back and forth.
>> Who were they?
>> How were they?
>> Yeah.
>> You know like a fire ant--
hormiga?
Like that, except that gray.
And they had long arms,
four fingers, no ears,
and the eyes were,
what, teardrop.
It looked like they
were naked, but it
looked like they
had like a uniform,
or I don't know what, it
was a smooth, you know?
But I noticed the arms.
There were longer than ours.
And I noticed that the
four fingers only, and--
>> Gray in color?
>> Grayish, yeah, grayish color.
>> Pinkish?
>> No.
No.
The ears were black, you know,
but long, like a football,
you know.
But no ears.
The mouth was a--
They remind me of a rabbit.
When we used to shoot the
rabbits, they'd cry, you know.
They remind me of
something like that.
>> They made noises?
>> Yeah.
Like a weird noise like
a baby crying, you know.
That's when I spotted
them from there, you know,
when I told Reme, let's--
they're hurt.
Let's go help them.
And Reme didn't want to.
>> He was scared?
>> He was scared.
As a matter of fact,
he started crying.
That's like, I went and got
on the horse and took off.
But who knows?
If I would have come
over here, maybe I
wouldn't be here telling
you this, you know.
Maybe I would have
been somewhere else.
Because the following day,
two days that came after that,
there weren't here.
But all the debris
that was out here
was cleaned up,
like with a rake.
>> Who did that?
>> Who knows?
>> The military?
>> No, no, no.
The military didn't appear
over here until the fourth day.
>> It means that
they received help.
>> And they might have had
scouts up there, you know,
that came over and took them.
That's how come we
never did find out,
state police and
my father, that's
how come we didn't find them.
>> You remember, this was
August 16, that is correct?
>> August 16th.
>> And you didn't come next day?
>> No, no.
>> On August 17, you
didn't come here.
>> No.
On the 18th is
when we came here.
>> And there was nobody here.
>> There was just a cleared up.
When we came out,
that state police
parked their car up above.
And they walked.
And we walked right behind them.
And we couldn't see right here.
It looked like they had threw
dirt on top of it or something.
So someone was here before.
Not the military.
>> And tried to hide the craft?
>> It's possible, yeah.
>> It had dirt on it?
>> Just dirt, degree, and
everything else, you know.
But the rest of it
was just cleaned up.
Afterwards, when the military
came over here and started
building that L-frame
to load that object on,
then that is when they started
pushing the gap, the arroyo,
[SPANISH] or whatever, was
on that side over there.
From here, the soldiers start
pushing junk in there, metal,
whatever, started pushing it.
>> That is still there?
>> We're about 20 feet
high over here of dirt.
Who knows?
It might be there.
My cousin came over
with a bulldozer
and pushed some of that dirt
and build this right here.
That wasn't there.
He pushed this out
here, you know,
so that we can get some
water for the cows over here.
Afterwards, the rains came,
push all that hump right there.
It's possible they push
some of the dirt up there
and some of that material
that fell on the other side.
>> It is possible that you
can still find small remains
of the ship that crashed there.
An earlier archaeological
investigation
found pieces of the craft,
or unidentified ship,
that apparently fell from space.
>> Who knows what happened here?
Just me and you, and Paul,
and these other girls.
>> Nobody else.
They know and they heard that
something had happened here.
But let me tell
you something else,
people from New
York, scientists,
had come over here trying to
find where the wreckage was.
And they went right by here.
They didn't know what
the heck's going on.
They wind up over
in the [SPANISH]..
Yet they put it in the paper.
It's not true.
Why the military
bury metal here?
Why they didn't take it?
>> Because they had a group of
seven men that they sent over
here.
That my opinion is that they
were too lazy to do their job.
They used to come over here.
One man used to sit on
post over here to watch.
And the six men used to start
digging, cleaning up the stuff.
Part of it they were
digging it and burying it.
They were waiting
for the evening
to come to go to the Owl
Bar to see their girls.
That's what my opinion was.
>> They were careless.
>> Yeah.
They were careless.
They were not doing their
job the way they should.
And I say that I would blame the
man that was posted out here.
He was the one in command.
He didn't do his job right.
He didn't do his job
right because they
stole a part from it.
Someone took it.
>> Someone took it.
And you were a little kid.
>> Except for the last day.
The last day that they came over
and they loaded up everything
up here, put the tarp on it, the
ropes, we were hiding up there,
looking at them.
They all, seven of
them, they all got
in the Jeep in the
evening and took off to go
see the girls in the Owl Bar.
>> And that's up there.
>> That's where we
decided to come down here.
There was no one over here.
>> The craft was in
the trailer already.
>> It was on the trailer, with
a tarp on top and the ropes tied
down.
>> And was alone here.
>> Yeah, myself, yeah.
There's no one-- took off
on the Jeep and took off.
I don't know what
time they came back.
But that object was moved
that night around 12:00.
Because at 12:00 clock,
San Antonio is asleep.
Because the following
day, we came out here
and it wasn't here.
But we had seen
it the day before.
>> Then they did it in
the middle of the night.
>> In the middle of the night.
>> These children, just
six and seven years old,
went up to the object that
was going to be transported
on an Army vehicle.
They entered and
took one of its parts
as a souvenir, a piece that they
had kept for more than 70 years
until today.
And that is a central
part of this research.
I am Jaime Maussan,
and I'll see you
on the next edition of "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.